- [Instructor] Hi and welcome
back to the programme.
I've created a new file
called list_comprehension.py
and that's what we're gonna be
talking about in this video.
Let's create a list, which
I'm gonna pull my list
and I'm just gonna have the values
from zero to four, five values.
List comprehension is
a way to build lists.
So create lists programmatically.
For example, an equal list to my list
would be X for X in range five.
So this is a bit of a
weird piece of syntax.
For non-Python programmers,
this is really completely new.
This is nowhere else other than Python
and maybe a couple of
other languages as well.
What this does, it does a for loop really.
It does for X in range five
and then what it's gonna do
is that's gonna iterate over range five.
Range five is a list that says
zero, one, two, three, four.
Like that.
So that's what range five is.
So we're gonna iterate
over it X is gonna become
the first element, and
then what we're gonna do
is were gonna put X inside a list.
Then we're gonna move
over to the next element
which is one and we're gonna
put one inside the list
then we're gonna put two in the list,
three in the list, four in the list.
So we're putting X into the list
for each of the elements in range five.
We enclose everything
with a square bracket
to tell Python that we're
putting this in a list.
Now you'll say instead of
doing X for X in range five,
why don't you just do range
five and that's gonna be
the same thing and yes it is,
it's gonna be the same thing.
But this is a way of building a list.
If we do range five then that's
gonna give us essentially a list.
It's not really gonna give us a list,
but it's essentially gonna give us a list.
But what we can do with list comprehension
is we can build a list that
is slightly more complicated.
So, for example, multiply list can
be X times three for X in range five.
Now this allows us to
put X multiplied by three
where X is at first
zero and then it is one,
and then it is two and so on.
So what do you think would happen
when we run this programme here,
python3.5 list_comprehension.py?
What do you think is
gonna get printed out,
some sort of error?
Or, do you think a list is
going to get printed out
and if so, what is going
to be in that list?
Well, let's find out.
What is in that list
is each of the elements
of range five but multiplied by three.
So we get zero, three, six, nine, and 12
instead of zero, one, two, three and four.
OK, something else that
I also wanted to show you
in this video is the percent symbol.
So for example, 8 % 3
do you know what percent is?
It's present in many
programming languages and if you
have any experience programming with
any other language then
you may know what % is.
But if you don't then that's
fine, and we get two back.
So where does this two come from?
It is the result of
eight divided by three.
Eight divided by three is two
but the two multiplied by three is six.
So where's the other two, the remainder?
And there you have your
answer, that's the two.
So when you divide eight by three
eight by three gives you six remainder two
and it is that two that is the modulus.
So eight modulus three equal two
which is the remainder.
This percent symbol is called the modulus
and it calculates the
remainder of a division.
You're probably wondering why the hell
do I care about that?
Well, you may care, for example,
if you wanted to see if
a number was odd or even.
You can print nine modulus
two and that will tell
you if nine is odd or even.
Any number modulus two will be even
if the result is zero, so for example,
four modulus two is zero
because four is even.
Five modulus two is one
because five is odd.
So as you can see nine
modulus two gives you one
because nine is odd.
So how could we get a
list of even numbers?
This is even more complicated,
not something that we've looked at before,
but nevertheless we're gonna introduce it
and we're gonna say n for n in range 10.
And as you know this
is gonna give us a list
of numbers ranging from zero to nine
in the same way that X for X in range five
gave us the numbers from zero to four.
But with list_comprehension.py
we can include
something else at the end which is
if n modulus to is zero,
and then we're gonna print that.
Now we're gonna comment this
out, and we can print this out.
So what do you think is
gonna come out of this?
Do you think it is going to be a list
of zero, two, four, six, eight?
Is it gonna be zero, one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine?
Is it gonna be something like zero false,
two false, four false?
The first guess was correct, you get zero
two, four, six, eight
because only those numbers
match this if statement there.
So if n modulus two is zero then
we put the n in the list, and if not,
then we don't put it in.
Another couple of things that we may wanna
do with a list_comprehension.py
for example,
people_you_know maybe
Rolf, maybe space John
maybe Anna, maybe Greg all in capitals.
And if we ask the user if they know them
they're gonna eed to
put Rolf in a capital R,
a space in front of John,
Anna all in lower case,
Greg all in uppercase.
Unless we do normalized_people.
We can create a variable
called normalized_people
and say person.strip().lower()
for person in people_you_know.
So what this is going to do is going
to strip the white
space, such as from John
and it's gonna turn them all
to lowercase, such as Anna.
It's gonna make them all lowercase,
and then we're gonna
print normalized_people.
We're gonna comment this line out,
just so we don't get
that line out as well.
As you can see, we now get a list
of normalised
representations where they're
all lowercase and they all
don't have white space.
So there's maybe one of the reasons
you might want to use
a list_comprehension.py
if we go back to our exercise before
the if statement exercise.
Now we can change this to
user list_comprehension
instead of this for which is a bit longer.
You want to pause the
video and give that a go?
Use a list_comprehension
to simplify this code.
And you can simplify
it quite substantially
if you do it smartly.
Pause the video and give that a go,
and then I will do it here for you.
Okay, hopefully you managed that.
And the first thing that we can do
is we can see people without spaces
is person.strip() for
person in people_list.
What that's gonna do is
it's gonna create a new list
where the element is gonna be the person
without white space for
each of the people in there.
However, we can also
take it a step further
and copy people.split and put it there
and then we can remove that too.
So we can now say people_without_spaces
is person without white space for each
of the persons in people.split.
So this, remember, gets evaluated first
and we get a list of people and then
we iterate over that
list getting the person
without white space for each.
We could go even further if we wanted,
although I would not recommend doing this.
And then we could do this.
This is really bad by
the way, don't do this.
But this is some sort of anti-pattern
that I have to show you anyway.
And then we can delete that.
As you can see this is looking uglier
and uglier as time passes
and there is always
a trade-off between lines of code,
the fewer lines the better really,
but as long as they are
as readable as possible.
Here we've lost readability because we've
got really just a lot of code in one line.
ATOM tells you that at 80 characters
that's wat this line
means, 80 characters long
you should really stop and here
we've probably got around 110.
Maybe we don't want all
this code to be in one line
because it's not so readable anymore.
But just to take it full circle
we could also do this,
and have the entire method
in one line if we wanted.
Then of course we could cut that
and put it in here, if we wanted,
we could get rid of that
method entirely and so on.
But as you can see, it just
doesn't really look as good.
It gets a lot more confusing very quickly.
Always split things into methods,
and make them readable so that
so that you can then
come back, a few weeks
or a few months later down the line
and really easily
understand what's going on.
We've guarantee a variable
people which probably
is gonna hold people and then
you've got a list of people
which are probably gonna
hold the list of people.
And you know that a list
is just a collection
of elements and then
you're removing the spaces.
You don't even need to look
at this bit of code here,
because people_without_spaces
already tells you
what values are in that list.
This should be your aim with
code and certainly is our aim
when we work professionally
as software developers
to make code readable
and easy to work with.
Because if you don't, it just takes
a really really long time to do anything
when you come back a few
weeks or a few months later
and you wanna improve things.
So that was just a bit
of a example showing
what you can do but not
really what you should do.
So keep that in mind moving forward,
make your code readable, make
your code easy to look at
and you will feel that it is
a lot easier to do everything.
So without further ado,
thanks for listening there
and I'll see you in the very next video.